# Kappendecke-2.0

The aim of this master thesis is to rethink the historical ceiling construction of the „Kappendecke“ in a contemporary way. By using structural design tools and digital fabrication methods a ceiling system that can be built without formwork, based on several requirements related to structure, construction and architectural design, shall be developed.  
The first part of this thesis deals with the research of historical ceiling systems and the exploration of novel formwork-free, 3D printed structures with a focus on structural design and digital fabrication.  The gain in knowledge from the first part forms the basis of the second part, whereby a design-study-cycle is approached to reach the optimal result. Each cycle starts with a form-finding to generate a first geometry. This geometry is then simulated and analysed in terms of loadbearing behavior, the fabrication process, the architectural concept and the visual appearance. If this analysis proves the form-found structure, this geometry is then adapted for printing and fabricated by a seven-axis robot. The knowledge generated from this process is then used as the base for further design cycles. 

To prove the concept of this work, several prototypes based on different geometrical solu-tions are fabricated and evaluated within this master thesis. In combination with a technical ceiling construction, these final prototypes are implemented into Architecture in the last step of this work to demonstrate the architectural applicability. 
